           The Project Gutenberg eBook of A scheme there was

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: A scheme there was

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: March 22, 2023 [eBook #70343]

Langauge: English

Publisher: US, The Butterick Publishing Company, 1930

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

    *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SCHEME THERE WAS ***


[Illustration]




                         A Scheme There Was

          A Story of the Whittling Sheriff of Mohave Wells

                          by W. C. Tuttle


Buck Brady stopped whittling long enough to brush aside the damp
lock of roan colored hair from his forehead and consider the two
passengers on the Mohave Wells-Lone Mule stage. The girl did not
look over eighteen; she had hair the color of spun gold, and a
delicate oval face. Buck could not tell the color of her eyes at
that distance, but he knew they were blue. She was wearing a blue
dress.

The man was possibly less than twenty-five, rather delicate looking,
and his hair was of nearly the same color as the girl’s.

Buck looked them over thoughtfully, a rather sad expression in his
faded blue eyes. Buck was tall and lean, with a long face, high
cheekbones and a mop of roan colored hair, one lock of which seemed
always to hang down below the edge of his sombrero.

Buck was the sheriff of that county. He was slow moving, slow of
speech. He was barely thirty-five and looked forty-five. He never
seemed in a hurry, always deliberate, yet there were men in the
Mohave who swore Buck could draw a six-shooter and shoot it straight
faster than a rattler could strike. But Buck’s obsession was
whittling. Hour after hour he would sit in the shade of his little
office, peeling off dainty spirals from soft pine. Whittling and
meditating.

As he considered the couple on the stage Larry Lebec, the driver,
came from a store farther down the street, ready to start for Lone
Mule City.

“Hyah, Buck,” he drawled, stopping.

“H’lo, Larry. Got a couple passengers, eh?”

Larry spat thoughtfully, squinting against the sun.

“Brother ’n’ sister--goin’ t’ Lone Mule, Buck. Ort t’ be a law agin
it.”

“Ort to be,” Buck said slowly. “Skinner?”

“Yeah. I found out that much. Advertisin’ payin’ jobs for girls.
Words it sweet and pretty. Brother expects to git a good job, too.
Ain’t very well, he ain’t. Name’s Nestor. His name’s Harry and hers
is Gladys. From the East. Gawd, why do them kind head for the
desert--and Lone Mule? They’ll be helpless in Lone Mule. Skinner ’n’
Eley boss the damn’ place. I know Skinner.”

“I know him,” slowly. “I know Eley, too. Pretty girl.”

“Uh-huh. I done tried to tell ’em a few facts, but they don’t seem
to _sabe_ my lingo. Mebbe I don’t _hablar_ English.”

Buck sighed and wiped the blade of his knife along the top of his
boot.

“Skinner and Eley kinda boss Lone Mule, eh? Sheriff don’t do
nothin’?”

“That Gila Monster? Hell’s delight, Buck! All he does is git drunk.
That’s why Skinner had him voted into office. Well, I’ve gotta be
goin’.”

Buck watched the stage pass the office, a strained expression about
his eyes. It hurt Buck to see that girl going to Lone Mule City. He
knew Lone Mule--a boom mining town, a regular hell town out there on
the edge of the desert, bossed by Dave Skinner and Charley Eley, who
owned all the liquor and honky-tonk privileges, owned a big interest
in the Lone Mule mine, and ran the town to suit themselves.

Buck knew that Skinner’s trouble was in getting girls for his
honky-tonks and saloons. The regulars shied away. Living conditions
were too crude, the remuneration too small. And Buck knew that
Skinner had advertised in a clever way, mentioning the need of
waitresses in his big café, as well as singers, and musicians--no
previous experience necessary; and a good salary.

That night at supper Buck told his wife about this girl. Buck seldom
said anything against any man, but Skinner’s ethics had rubbed Buck
the wrong way.

“It ain’t none of my business,” he told his wife, “but it kinda gits
me. I ain’t never willin’ly shot any man, and I hope I never will,
but I wish Dave Skinner was triplets and I jist had three shells in
my gun.”

“Kind of a rattler, ain’t he, honey?” asked Mrs. Brady.

“I wouldn’t go that far,” said Buck, attacking his meal, “’cause as
far as I can figger out, a rattler is clean minded and strikes in
self-defense.”

“I’ve heard that them Lone Mule folks don’t like you, honey.”

“Oh, they ain’t so dumb,” drawled Buck. “No, ma’am, I don’t reckon
any of ’em would yell for help if they seen me fall in a well.
They’d dump in a couple big rocks and call it a rescue.”

Buck was right. Skinner and Eley and their cohorts had little use
for the sheriff of Mohave Wells. Skinner was a man of slight
physique, with a putty colored skin--an unhealthy looking individual,
lean, hungry looking, with small greenish eyes and a thin lipped
mouth.

Eley was a big man, swarthy as an Indian, powerful and overbearing.
Eley was a fighter with his hands; Skinner with a gun. Skinner was
the keen minded gambler, Eley the bouncer. Together they had worked
as a combine to rule Lone Mule City.

Clyde Mellon was their sheriff. His office was at Jewel City, and he
spent little time in Lone Mule. An occasional killing or a robbery
would bring him to the mines, where Skinner would tip him off as to
whether it was to the interests of Skinner and Eley to make an
arrest or not. They were adept at railroading an enemy.

Little news of Lone Mule City came to Mohave Wells, except from the
stage driver, or a disgruntled miner or gambler. Stage passengers
usually went by way of Jewel City, as it was nearer to Lone Mule and
Skinner and Eley owned that stage line.

Day after day Buck Brady questioned Larry Lebec about the girl and
her brother, but Larry had little news. The girl was working in a
restaurant; the brother had a job as a mucker in the Lone Mule mine.
Larry finally made it a point to seek the girl and find out how
things were; but she had been let out and was no longer employed
there. Larry asked the proprietor why she had been fired, but the
man merely shrugged his shoulders. Larry went to the timekeeper’s
office at the mine and inquired about Harry Nestor. The timekeeper
discovered that Nestor had been discharged. No, he did not know why.

But Larry knew either Skinner or Eley had engineered the deal. Larry
told Buck Brady about it and promised to investigate further. A few
days later Larry talked with a half drunken gambler, who had been
fired from Skinner’s place, and he told Larry that Skinner had been
trying to induce the girl to work for him. The gambler called
Skinner a lot of unprintable names, packed up his things and came
out to Mohave Wells, where Buck talked with him.

He told Buck that Eley had seen the girl and was crazy about her. It
was Eley who had forced the restaurant man to fire her, and a word
from Eley had settled Harry Nestor, as far as mine work was
concerned. Buck decided that Skinner and Eley knew the Nestors were
broke, and they were forcing them either to work for Skinner and
Eley or not work in Lone Mule.

A few days later Larry sat down in front of Buck’s office and
watched Buck cut keen shavings from a soft pine board.

“You like to whittle, don’tcha, Buck?” he asked.

“Yea-a-ah,” drawled Buck, a lazy smile in his eyes. “My idea of
heaven is a shady spot, nothin’ to do, and a big pile of soft pine.
Anythin’ new, Larry?”

“Nothin’ much. I seen Harry Nestor today. Shore looks bad. I seen
him buy a can of salmon and a nickel’s worth of crackers. Gawd, I
reckon things are breakin’ bad for them two. He went upstairs in an
old shack. I was in Skinner and Eley’s place, but the Nestor girl
wasn’t there. I reckon they’re holdin’ on. Folks up there are awful
close mouthed, Buck. Scared, that’s it.”

“I ort t’ go up there,” mused Buck. “Might git ’em out. Prob’ly
ain’t got the price of a ticket. Prob’ly mean shootin’ somebody.”

“Mean trouble,” nodded Larry. “They don’t like you.”

Buck put away his knife and drew a ten-dollar bill from his pocket.

“Give ’em that bill, Larry. If they want to git away, bring ’em out,
and I’ll pay their freight. The girl could work for the wife awhile.
She’ll be needin’ help pretty soon. Mebbe I could find the kid a
job. I dunno.”

“They’ll appreciate this,” said Larry heartily.

“Mebbe. I dunno either of ’em. But whether they do or not, it’ll
save the girl from them two carrion crows.”

“I’ll see ’em tomorrow,” promised Larry. “They’re all right, them
two. No earthly business in this country. You got to have more than
eddication in this country. You gotta have sense.”

                 *       *       *       *       *

Buck watched for the stage next day. He had talked it over with his
wife, and she was willing to take the girl in until she could save
up a little money. If Buck’s wife had not been endowed with
something more than education, she might have suspected that Gladys
Nestor’s pretty face had turned his head. But Buck was not
interested in pretty girls, except that he did not want to see them
going to Lone Mule City, innocently looking for an honest job.

The stage was due in Mohave Wells at about four o’clock in the
afternoon, but on this day it came in about three-thirty, all four
horses lathering from a weary run. Larry skidded the stage to a stop
in front of the stage office, threw open the stage door; and out
came Gladys and Harry Nestor. The girl was bareheaded, her dress
torn; Harry was without hat or coat and one sleeve of his shirt was
missing. His face was bruised.

Larry asked the office man to hold the team, and came down to Buck’s
office, where Buck stood in the doorway, wondering what it was all
about. He nodded to the half hysterical girl, glanced at the young
man, and turned to Larry.

“You got to take care of ’em, Buck,” he said, breathing hard. “I had
one hell of a time gettin’ ’em out of Lone Mule. I shore fanned that
team, but they ain’t far behind.”

“They?” queried Buck.

“Skinner and some of his tough gang. Eley is dead, and Skinner
swears that Harry Nestor shot and killed him.”

Buck’s nose twitched a little as he looked at Harry Nestor. The
boy’s face was the color of ashes.

“How about it, son?” asked Buck kindly.

The boy swallowed painfully, shook his head, seemingly bereft of
speech.

“What do you know, ma’am?” asked Buck.

“Oh, Harry did not shoot him! I know he didn’t do it.”

“Didja see who shot him?”

Gladys shook her head wearily.

“No, I--I don’t know.”

“They ain’t far behind us,” said Larry nervously. “I reckon they aim
to tie off on the kid.”

“Take the girl down to my place, Larry,” said Buck. “She’ll be safe.
They only want this kid, but if they monkey around down there, Ma
Brady shore knows how to handle my sawed off Winchester shotgun. Git
goin’.”

Larry took the girl down a narrow alley past the office, and Buck
took the boy into the jail.

“I dunno the facts of the matter,” he told Harry, “but that can
wait. I’m goin’ to protect your life by lockin’ you up, son. Nobody
can take you out of that cell without a key--and I have the only key.
You jist set down and take it easy. Nobody in this here desert
country ever took a man away from me yet; so don’t worry. We’ll talk
later.”

“Thank you, Mr. Brady.”

“You’re welcome, Mr. Nestor.”

Buck went back to the little porch, took out his knife and began
whittling, his sombrero low over his eyes. He saw Skinner and four
of his men ride in and tie their horses in front of Mohave Wells’
one saloon. They went in to get a drink.

Larry Lebec came back and noted the sweaty horses at the hitchrack
across the street.

“Got here, eh?” he said.

“Yea-a-a-ah. Go ahead and put up your team. They won’t do much.”

About fifteen minutes later Skinner came alone from the saloon. Buck
quit whittling and put away his knife. Skinner stopped at the edge
of the sidewalk and considered the sheriff intently for several
moments.

“We came down here to take a murderer back with us, Brady.”

“Yea-a-a-ah? What murderer?”

“That young Nestor you’ve got inside there.”

“Oh, that kid?”

“He murdered Eley.”

“That so?”

“I’m tellin’ you, Brady. Do you want Mellon to have to come after
him?”

“No-o, I don’t want Clyde Mellon monkeyin’ around here, Skinner.”

“Then turn him over to me. We’ll take him back and give him a fair
trial.’

“Yea-a-a-ah? I suppose you want the girl, too.”

“She’ll have to come back as a witness.”

Buck grinned slowly, and his right hand slid back a little. He
scratched his thumb on the edge of the holster, his pale eyes on
Skinner’s right hand.

“Skinner--” slowly--“I’ve been waitin’ for a chance to tell you what a
dirty specimen you are. I’ve shore got a lot to tell you.”

“I’m not here for that purpose, Brady.”

“This is jist sort of a by-product, Skinner. No trouble a-tall.
Fingers itch? Scratch ’em, you carrion coyote! Not interested? Keep
your hand away from that gun. Now, this is business. You’ll not take
that kid, and you’ll not take that girl. Go back and get your
sheriff. By the time he gets here, none of you will ever find them
two. Leave one of your men here to watch where they go, and that man
might as well drink some of your own cyanide. I’m runnin’ this end
of the deal, and you’ll find that I rate as high in Mohave Wells as
you do in Lone Mule. Skinner, I’ve got you whipped. I don’t believe
that kid ever killed Eley, but if he did he shore deserves a lot
more of a chance than you and your hired killers would ever give
him.”

Skinner’s lips tightened and his eyes narrowed, but he was obliged
to swallow this.

“I’ll put you out of this county,” he threatened. “You’re defendin’
a murderer. You’re as guilty as he is in the eyes of the law.”

“That law is cockeyed, Skinner; and I’m not goin’ accordin’ to
written laws. When I see a coyote chasin’ a rabbit, I’m for the
rabbit. That’s my law. Go home and forget it.”

“Some day this country is goin’ to be too hot for you, Brady.”

“Yeah, and when it does, you won’t gloat a hell of a lot, ’cause
where you’ll be, this’ll be the Arctic, beside what you’ll be
sufferin’.”

“All right. But I’ll tell you this much--I’m comin’ back here with
the law behind me, and you better have that damn’ murderer where we
can get him.”

“When you come back here you and your law better wear iron
overcoats, ’cause I’ll be lookin’ for you.”

Skinner turned and went back to the saloon, but he and his men made
no move to leave Mohave Wells. Buck went in and bolted the back
door, unlocked the cell door and asked Harry Nestor to come out into
the front office, where they might watch the saloon. Buck took a
Winchester rifle from the gun rack and sat with it across his knees,
while the white faced kid sat near him on the edge of a chair.

                 *       *       *       *       *

“I never killed him, Mr. Brady,” protested Harry. “Why, I never had
a gun. My sister had work at a restaurant and I was working in the
big mine. We were getting along all right. Mr. Skinner tried to get
Glad to work in his dance hall. She can play a piano. But she
wouldn’t go into a place like that.

“Those women in there were terrible, and drunken men--Glad wouldn’t
go into that place. Then Glad got let out at the restaurant, and
somebody stole what money she had. And that same day I got fired.
I--I don’t believe they paid me what I had coming. I protested, but
the man said I could take it or leave it.

“We just had a little room upstairs in an old shack. I had to sleep
on the floor with just one blanket. Mr. Skinner kept coming up to
see Glad, and sometimes Mr. Eley would come up. Mr. Skinner
threatened me, and I--I didn’t know what to do. Everybody up there is
his friend.

“One day Mr. Eley came up and argued with Glad. He tried to get me
to drink some whisky, but I couldn’t do it. And Mr. Skinner came up
that same day, and he swore at Eley, who swore back at him. They
really talked nasty in front of Glad. Oh, we wanted to get away from
there, but we didn’t have money to pay stage fare. It was awful, Mr.
Brady.”

“Yeah, I reckon it wasn’t pleasant, son.”

“It was terrible. And--today--”

“That’s the main thing,” said Buck slowly. “Tell it.”

“Mr. Eley came up there and he had been drinking. He’s such a big
man. He shut the door. Glad and me were having a bite of lunch. He
told me to--to get the hell out of there. I tried to remonstrate with
him, but he swore at me and said he was through fooling around with
me.

“I thought he was going to kill me. Perhaps that was his intentions.
Glad tried to reason with him, but it was no use. He started for
me--” Harry rubbed the back of his right hand across his eyes.

“I was afraid, Mr. Brady. There was a small chair, which I picked up
and threw at him. I--I guess he was unprepared, and it struck him in
the face, knocking him down on his knees. He had a gun. His face was
bleeding. I--I don’t know why I did it, but I sprang on him, trying
to hit him with my fists. He threw me aside, but I--I guess I came
back and we fell down again.

“Oh, I don’t remember--much. Glad was screaming. And then there was
the noise of a gun. I was confused--hurt a little, I suppose. I
remember the door was open. Glad had her hands over her face, and
there was Eley on his back, blood running from one side of his head.
It was awful. Men were coming in, and I saw Skinner. He told me I
had killed a man. And then there was the stage driver. He shoved
Glad through the door. He didn’t seem to mind the other men, but he
had a gun pointed at Skinner, and he said to me, ‘Get downstairs as
fast as you can and put your sister on my stage.’

“I don’t remember getting down there. Glad was almost fainting, but
I put her in the stage, which was across the street. We were hardly
in, when we saw the driver running toward us, and I heard him spring
up on the stage. He cried out something to some men in front of the
station--and I--think he ran those horses all the way down here, while
Glad and I clung to each other and tried to keep from injuring
ourselves.”

“You didn’t shoot Eley with his own gun, didja?” asked Buck.

“No, I did not.”

“You say the door was open, but it was shut when the fight started.
Didja fall against it?”

“No. we were never near it, Mr. Brady.”

“Who didja see first--after Eley was shot?”

“Mr. Skinner.”

“Uh-huh. Do you reckon Skinner was mad at Eley over your sister?”

“He was one day. He told Mr. Eley to keep his paws off her.”

“What did Eley say?”

“I should hate to repeat it.”

“Don’t. I know. You go on back in that cell and shut the door. It
locks on a spring.”

“They can’t arrest me for murder, can they? I never killed him.”

“Not in Mohave Wells, son, not while I’m sheriff. And there ain’t
another civilized county in this here State where they’d arrest a
man for killin’ a predatory animal. You run along. I’ve got a little
whittlin’ to do.”

                 *       *       *       *       *

Skinner was mad, but he did not talk openly in the saloon. He knew
how Buck Brady stood with the people of Mohave Wells. He and his men
lingered in the saloon, drinking a little. Finally they started a
poker game to kill time. Skinner’s men asked no questions. They were
content to stay there and wait for Skinner to tell them what to do.
They were Skinner’s hired killers and their time belonged to him.

They ate supper at the little Chinese restaurant. Buck Brady knew
there was some reason for their staying in Mohave Wells, and as he
whittled and whittled he wondered what that reason might be. Larry
Lebec came down after supper, wondering why Skinner and his men
stayed.

“Go down to my house,” said Buck. “They might be aimin’ to get that
girl, but I don’t think so. The kid told me the story about you
gettin’ ’em out of that town. Where’d you first see Skinner--about
the time of the fight?”

“I was on the stage, Buck. The station is almost across the street
from where they had the fight. I heard that shot, but I didn’t know
where it was. Then I seen Skinner. He was at the entrance to them
stairs, and I don’t know whether he was comin’ out or goin’ in.

“He yelled at somebody and pointed up them stairs. I had a hunch; so
over I went and up the stairs. It shore was a mess. There was Eley,
shot through the head, and everythin’ upset. Skinner was accusin’
the kid of shootin’ Eley; so I th’owed my gun down on Skinner and
took them kids away. We shore fanned the breeze out of there.”

“That’s fine, pardner. Trot down to the house, will you?”

“I shore will. See you later.”

Darkness came, but Buck stayed there. The lights of the saloon were
bright enough for him to see the horses at the hitchrack. Buck drew
down his window shade and lighted a lamp. He had a peephole in that
old shade; a misguided cowboy had sent a .45 slug through the shade
one night.

It was about eight o’clock when the five men came from the saloon,
mounted their horses and came down the street past the office. Buck
watched them closely, and he saw one man turn back as the others
galloped on. He rode up to the office and dismounted. A few moments
later he knocked, and Buck asked him to come in.

It was Skinner, but a rather apologetic Skinner. Buck stood up and
faced him.

“I’ve been thinkin’ this thing over, Brady,” he said humbly. “We
don’t want to go off half cocked. I realize we’ve been a little
hasty and I know how you feel toward me.”

It was so unlike Skinner that Buck was instantly alert, suspicious.

“Yeah?” he queried.

Skinner came in a little closer. They were within arm’s reach of
each other now.

“The girl saw the whole thing,” said Skinner. “I never had a chance
to question her about what she saw. Naturally she wouldn’t
incriminate her own brother, but I’d like to hear what she’d have to
say.”

“Meanin’ what?” asked Buck. His right hand was itching for that gun.

“Take me where she is. You’ve got the best of it, Brady. We’ll
question her together, eh? That’s the stuff. I’d even give you my
gun--”

His right hand jerked back. Perhaps Skinner was really going to give
Buck that gun, but his action was altogether too sudden to suit
Buck, whose gun came up like a flash. With a short arm jerk Buck
snapped the heavy barrel against the side of Skinner’s head.

Skinner went down like a pole-axed beef, shaking the office, his
right hand convulsively gripping the gun he had drawn. Buck kicked
it aside.

“Must ’a’ thought he was pretty fast,” muttered Buck. “Fool!”

He grasped Skinner by the nape of the neck and dragged him back to
the cell, where he unlocked the door.

“Mr. Brady?” asked Harry Nestor nervously.

“And companion,” grunted Buck, as he unlocked the door and dragged
Skinner inside and stretched him out on the bunk.

“C’mon, son,” said Buck, and they went out to the office.

“Stay here,” ordered Buck, and went outside, where he tied the reins
up on Skinner’s horse, swung the animal around and slapped it with
his hat.

Buck came back, blew out the light and told Harry to follow him.
They went through the back door, and in a few minutes they were down
at Buck’s house. Larry was there, the shotgun across his lap. Gladys
was overjoyed at sight of Harry.

“I was tellin’ her that Buck would protect her brother,” said Mrs.
Brady.

“How about a little somethin’ to eat, Ma?” asked Buck. “Me and the
kid ain’t nourished yet.”

“Oh, I don’t believe I shall ever have an appetite again,” said
Harry.

“You will here,” said Buck.

“Skinner and his gang pull out?” asked Larry.

“Little while ago.”

“Why did they stay around here?” Buck shook his head slowly.

“I wish I knew, Larry. There was a scheme.”

“Was a scheme?”

Came a heavy footfall on the porch, a sharp knock at the door. Buck
stepped over against the wall and flung the door open. It was the
man from the stage office, hatless, out of breath.

“Brady!” he blurted. “Some men broke into your office a few minutes
ago, and they must have fired a dozen shots in there. I was across
the street and I heard the shots. It was like a Fourth of July in
there. Then the men came running out to their horses, and I heard
one of them say:

“‘By Gawd, if we can’t get ’em one way, we’ll get ’em another!’”

The lines of Buck Brady’s face seemed to deepen a little as they
looked at him. He sighed softly and turned to look at the serious
face of Lebec.

“_Was_ a scheme, Larry,” he said softly.


[Transcriber's Note: This story appeared in the March 1, 1930 issue
of Adventure magazine.]

     *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A SCHEME THERE WAS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.